# Unsupervised-Clustering
This code was developed by the authors as a project for the Unsupervised Learning Exam of the Master's Degree in Artificial Intelligence for Science and Technology.

The aim of this project is to cluster the Diabetes dataset using three target variables: Diabetes, Hypertension and Stroke. Since the data are of mixed-types, the solution that has been found to deal with them was to compute the distance matrix with Gower's distance, which will be used as metric in the following analysis. No dimensionality reduction was performed because it was found that the FAMD and UMAP methods were ineffective. Anomaly detection was performed via the k-Nearest Neighbor algorithm, which allowed to identify approximately 2.000 outliers. Clustering was performed using three methods: Hierarchical, Density-Based (DBSCAN) and k-Prototypes. With some hyper-parameter tuning, it was found that the best solutions were those given by Ward's method for the Hierarchical and the k-Prototypes, both with three clusters. Lastly, some unsupervised (Silhouette coefficient and Dunn index) and supervised measures (Rand score, ARI and Fowlkes and Mallows index) were computed in order to evaluate the clustering solutions found, which showed that none of them were good clustering or at least meaningful.

This repository contains the code (The_Diabetes_Dataset_Project_Unsupervised_CASATI_DENTI.ipynb) and the Final Report of the project (The_Diabetes_Dataset_Project_Unsupervised_CASATI_DENTI.pdf), in which the results and the methods have been commented in detail.
